# Homework 4

## VolcanoCoin Contract

At each point where you change your contract you should redeploy to the JavascriptVM and test your changes.

1.  In Remix, create a new file called VolcanoCoin.sol. ✅
2.  Define the pragma compiler version to ^0.8.0. ✅
3.  Before the pragma version, add a license identifer
    `// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED` ✅
4.  Create a contract called VolcanoCoin. ✅
5.  Create a variable to hold the total supply of 10000. ✅
6.  Make a public function that returns the total supply.✅
7.  Make a public function that can increase the total supply. Inside the function, add 1000 to the current total supply. ✅
8.  We probably want users to be aware of functions in the contract for greater transparency, but to make them all public will create some security risks (e.g. we don't want users to be able to change the total supply). Declare an address variable called owner. ✅
9.  Next, create a modifier which only allows an owner to execute certain functions. ✅
10. Make your change total supply function public, but add your modifier so that only the owner can execute it. ✅
11. The contract owner's address should only be updateable in one place. Create a constructor and within the constructor, store the owner's address. ✅
12. It would be useful to broadcast a change in the total supply. Create an event that emits the new value whenever the total supply changes. When the supply changes, emit this event. ✅
13. In order to keep track of user balances, we need to associate a user's address with the balance that they have.
    - What is the best data structure to hold this association?
      _a mapping where the user's address is the key and the user's balance is the value_
    - Using your choice of data structure, set up a variable called balances to keep track of the number of volcano coins that a user has. ✅
14. We want to allow the balances variable to be read from the contract, there are 2 ways to do this.
    - What are those ways?
      _1. By using the `public` keyword when declaring the `mapping`_
      _2. Manually write a get function that access the `mapping`_
    - Use one of the ways to make your balances variable visible to users of the contract. ✅
15. Now change the constructor, to give all of the total supply to the owner of the contract. ✅
16. Now add a public function called transfer to allow a user to transfer their tokens to another address. This function should have 2 parameters:
    1. the amount to transfer and ✅
    2. the recipient address. ✅
    - Why do we not need the sender's address here?
      _We access the sender's address by using `msg.sender`_
    - What would be the implication of having the sender's address as a parameter ?
      _Someone could transact token's on behalf of another person's address by passing in the another person's address as the sender._
17. Add an event to the transfer function to indicate that a transfer has taken place, it should log the amount and the recipient address. ✅
18. We want to keep a record for each user's transfers. Create a struct called Payment that stores the transfer amount and the recipient's address. ✅
19. We want to have a payments array for each user sending the payment. Create a mapping which returns an array of Payment structs when given this user's address. ✅

### Code

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED

pragma solidity 0.8.0;

contract VolcanoCoin {
    uint256 totalSupply = 10000;

    event SupplyIncrease(uint256 newTotalSupply);
    event TokenTransfer(address recipientAddress, uint256 transferAmount);

    mapping(address => uint256) public TokenMap;
    mapping(address => Payment[]) TransferMap;

    address owner;

    struct Payment {
        address recipientAddress;
        uint256 transferAmount;
    }

    modifier onlyOwner() {
        if (msg.sender == owner) {
            _;
        }
    }

    constructor() {
        owner = msg.sender;
        TokenMap[owner] = totalSupply;
    }


    function getSupply() public view returns (uint256) {
        return totalSupply;
    }

    function increaseSupply() public onlyOwner {
        totalSupply = totalSupply + 10000;
        emit SupplyIncrease(totalSupply);
    }

    function getAddressBalance(address _address ) public view returns (uint256) {
        return TokenMap[_address];
    }

    function transfer(address _address, uint256 _amount) public {
        TokenMap[msg.sender] -= _amount;
        TokenMap[_address] += _amount;
        emit TokenTransfer(_address, _amount);

        TransferMap[_address].push(Payment(_address, _amount));
    }

    function getUserTransfers(address _address) public view returns(Payment[] memory){
        return TransferMap[_address];
    }
}
```

## Resources

- [Official Solidity Documentation](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/)
- [Globally Available Variables](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.6/units-and-global-variables.html)
